96% of nuclear power plants are installed closest to water bodies, using those waters
in the cooling system. With this in mind and remembering the fukushima's accidents, in 2011,
we ask ourselves:

- what would happen in Brazil, if a natural disaster, like a tsunami or an earthquake, happened?
- where the released material woould disperse?
- which mechanisms would dominate the dispersion ?

To answer these questions, we implement the Estuarine and Coastal Ocean Modelling,
also knowed as ECOM, in Angra dos Reis, located in southeast Brazil, where, currently,
there are 2 nuclear reactors in operation.

As input data, we use two typical winds, tides and river discharge, in 
6 differents experiments:

. Exp I: only with northeasterly winds associated to South America Subtropical High
. Exp II: only with southwesterly winds associated with the passage of Frontal Systems
. Exp III: only with tidal components.

These three experiments were used to verify the influence of each variable in
the estuarine's circulation.

. Exp IV: with northeasterly wind, tides and river discharge
. Exp V: with southwesterly winds, tides and river discharge
. EXP VI: with winds varying spatial and temporally, tides and river discharge.

These finall three experiments are conduct to verify the dispersion of the 
material released into the ocean.

 results

 We separate the results in two sections. 
 First, we observed the isolated influence of tide and wind in the circulation, using the
 experiment I, II and III, by analyzing the mean surface current during each experiment.
 In Figure 3, we can see the mean current generated by wind (northeasterly and southwesterly) and
 by tides. We noted that velocities are higher when tides is considered, reaching intensities
 closest to 0.6 m/s, while in the experiment with wind, the highest velocity observed was .25 m/s.

 When we turn on the tracer module in, Experiments IV and V, we can visualize the
 dispersion of the radioactive material. In those experiments, considering
 river discharge, tide and wind (northeasterly in IV and southwesterly in V), we
 assume that the direction of dispersion will be controlled by the wind's direction.
 So, the tide will be the main mechanism acting on mixing this material, mainly
 when the dispersion reach the eastern side of the domain, with highest tide-driven
 circulation (Fig 4.d).

 In second section, we use wind varying in space and time, in closest to real
 conditions. We can observe (Fig 5) the propagation of the radioactive material
 to the eastern region of the domain, where the velocities are higher and,
 by consequence, the mixing of the pollutant will be higher.
 However, we can see locally (zoomed area in Fig 5), that the material
 persist in a semi-enclosed area (Ribeira Bay). This persistence is 
 corroborated by [3], where the higher concentrations of Cs and Pb-137
 are detected in surface sediment, in the same region where we point as
 the most impacted area.

=== Conclusions
just look to the poster, Danilo.



=== Possible asks:

. Why tritium ?
half life of 12.42 years, so we can considerate tritium as a conservative
material, using it as a tracer of radioactive material.

. This model was validate?
We do not publish this work yet precisely because the absence of validation.
I'm looking for insitu data to validate. But looking in the literature,
the currents modelled here are compared to insitu data collected by Signorini,
in his articles of 1980.

. hot start?



